                    How to ensure the quality of a software system

                                  13126103 刘佳奇

Thanks to the teacher's guidance, I learned a lot and get to know a lot of things I didn’t know from software 
quality assurance course. According to what we have learned in this course, I will give my own opinion on 
quality assurance of diandian words software.

For quality assurance of diandian software, the first thing I can think out is testing. We must test the 
functions of the product before it is sent to users. The tester write test cases, execute test cases, and 
write test report, making good feedback to the developers. Developers seriously read test reports, fix bugs 
and feedback to testers. Test should confirm it again.

Quality assurance, however, is not just end-to-end testing, even not just testing. There are a lot of 
alternatives, such as defect prevention, inspection, formal verification, fault tolerance, failure containment, 
etc. In different processes, what QA focuses are different. In process requirements and specification, design 
and coding, QA focuses on defect prevention. In coding and testing, QA focus on defect removal. In the release 
and support process, it focuses on defect containment. QA scattered throughout all processes. Testing contains 
planning and preparation, execution and analysis & Follow-up.  We can't stop testing before all the 
quality-based criteria are reached unless we have critical resource limit. Quality planning and QA analysis/
feedback all are also important part of development activities.

Imagine that if there is no good way to guarantee the quality of demand and the development processes, how 
is it possible that at the time of the end-to-end it can meet the requirements? Therefore, in each stage of 
software development we cannot ignore quality assurance.


In the end of requirements development stage we should review the quality of requirements specifications in 
detail to make sure that it's in accordance with user requirements. Only when we do this, the requirement 
specifications can be the basis of software development.

Unit testing is a kind of white-box testing method which is mainly completed by developers. Unit testing helps 
developers to make sure every function they write is correct. The time spent on unit test may not even shorter 
than coding, but it is very effective to guarantee the quality of the code. We should spend enough time on it. 
We should also use peer review to ensure the correctness and maintainability of code. In each development 
iteration cycle, we have to do end-to-end testing and ensure its feedback quality. Walkthroughs technology 
should also be used for informal review which is important to ensure the successful completion of all development 
processes.

Only in this way that one company establishes a company institution so that people respect the quality assurance 
department, the quality assurance can have effective results. Ultimately it should be formed a corporate culture.

For diandian, I have made some tests on it. It’s easily used but inescapably has some bugs. I think its UI can be 
made more interesting to users, too.

That is all of my understanding of quality assurance of a software system.

Thanks!

13126103 刘佳奇
